Molokaʻi nui a Hina	a saying that means that Molokaʻi is the child of Hina, an akua, or goddess, at the time of the creation of the islands
Aia lā hoʻi	there at that place indeed
ma waena o	in between
ʻē aʻe	other. This is used at the end of phrases and links to the word right before it; for example, nā mokupuni ʻē aʻe - the other islands
nō hoʻi kekahi	also used at the end of a phrase, it is a very emphatic "also"; for example, a ua hele nā kāne nō hoʻi kekahi - and the men went also
A hiki i kēia mau lā	right up to today, until these days
ʻaʻole loa	not at all
me ia nō	just the way it is, unchanging
hānau a hānai	born and bred, as a place where you were "born and bred"
he akua	a god
he mile	a mile. From the English word mile. He mile.
he pali	a cliff
he wailele	a waterfall
he kahua pipi	a ranch
he holoholona	an animal, usually four-footed
he kāula	a priest of the ancient Hawaiian religion
he home	a home. From the English. He home
he ala	a road or pathway
he haole	a foreignerr, a caucasian
he imu	an underground oven
he ipo	a sweetheart
he keiki	a child, a baby
he kālā	money. This is from the English word "dollar" - "dālā" - "kālā"
he kamaʻāina	as resident, a person familiar with a place
ka poʻe	the people (you cannot use the word "poʻe" to mean a person; for that you would have to use "kanaka", as we have already learned). ka poʻe - people
ka loa	the length
ka laulā	the width
ke kai	the sea
ko moana	the open ocean
nā nahele	the forests. nā is the plural definite marker, and nahele is forest
lōʻihi	long
ʻokoʻa	different
piha	full, as a container
akamai	clever, smart
hauʻoli	happy
kapu	sacred, or off-limits. The English word "taboo" comes from the old pronunciation of this word as "tapu". kapu
lōlō	crazy, stupid
Hina	a goddess in the Hawaiian creation story
Wākea	a god in the Hawaiian creation story
Kamakou	the name of the high mountain on Molokaʻi's east end
Kahiwa	the waterfall that is one of the longest in the world
Lanikāula	the name of a famous priest who lived on Molokaʻi
Maunaloa	a place name on Molokaʻi
Kaluakoʻi	a place name on Molokaʻi
Moʻomomi	a place name on Molokaʻi
Ka-lae-o-ka-ʻīlio	a place name on Molokaʻi
Kepuhi	a place name on Molokaʻi
Ka-lae-o-ka-lāʻau	a place name on Molokaʻi
Hale o Lono	a place name on Molokaʻi
Kalaupapa	a place name on Molokaʻi
Kaunakakai	a place name on Molokaʻi
lele	to jump, or fly as an animal; to leap off a cliff
aʻoaʻo	to advise someone about something
holomua	to progress, as in ability
hāpai	to carry; also when a person is pregnant, she is "hāpai"
kōkua	to help