nani maoli nō	truly beautiful
nō	an emphatic word, affirming or intensifying the word that comes right before it
hoʻi	another emphatic word, similar to nō, and often used in combination with nō. It can also mean "again", "also", or "indeed".
ʻaʻole	no, not
no hea mai?	where from?
kekahi i kekahi	from one to the other
a	and
me	with
hui pū	to meet together
moe pū	to sleep together
ma Hawaiʻi	in Hawaiʻi
ʻoiai	since, due to the fact that
inā	if
ma hope mai	afterwards
i mua pono	right in front
paha	this words means "perhaps" and refers to the word that comes right before it, as in he malihini paha - a visitor perhaps
e ka mea hoʻolohe	o listener. This is addressing the person listening to the story
kekahi	a or an
kekahi mau	some
naʻu	for me
nāna	for him or for her
ʻo ia	she or he. This is used as the subject in sentences like "he went for a ride" or "she will speak".
he kapakai	a shoreline
he aliʻi kāne	a chief
he pahu	a drum
he moemoeā	a dream or fantasy
he moeʻuhane	a dream in which the experiences seem almost real
he kaikaina	a younger sibling of the same sex, meaning the younger brother of a male, or a younger sister of a female.
he moʻo	a gecko. Also a mythical creature, a guardian spirit
he ʻuhane	a spirit
he māhele	a part or division
he huaʻōlelo	an individual word
he ʻohana	a family
uʻi	beautiful, young beauty
kupaianaha	amazing
pāhaʻohaʻo	mysterious, amazing, intriguing, unfathomable
make	dead
lili	jealous
kaumaha	sad
pōkole	short
ola	to be alive
Lohiʻau	the chief of Kauaʻi
Laupāhoehoe	The place on Hawaiʻi island where Pele was sleeping
Hāʻena	a place on Kauaʻi
Hiʻiaka	the favourite young sister of Pele
Hopoe	the best friend and companion of Hiʻaka
Panaʻewa	the lush forest area in Hawaiʻi island which was a favourite place for Hiʻaka and Hopoe
hoʻomaopopo	to remember, as when you remember something you were supposed to have done. Also "to remind someone of something".
lohe	to hear
hoʻolohe	to listen
moe	to sleep
kono	to invite
ola	to live
haʻalele	to leave a place or a person to go somewhere else
ala	to wake up from sleep
kiʻi	to fetch something
mālama	to take care of something
ʻae	to agree
kuhi	to assume, to suppose
hoʻi	to return home. Note that this is a different "hoʻi" from the one we heard earlier meaning "indeed" and "also".
hoʻomaʻamaʻa	to practice
hoʻomākaukau	to prepare for something